#summary This page outlines the resource model for COLORE.

*This page is currently a work in progress!!!*

= The COLORE Resource Model =

The COLORE Resource Model (CRM) is loosely based on the Resource-Oriented Architecture (ROA) defined in ?.  Although the ROA has been designed specifically to support RESTful Web Services, the guiding principles behind the methodology may be extended for COLORE's more general scope.  Within the ROA resource may be thought of as anything that is interesting enough to be referred to by name.  

COLORE resources are categorized according to the purpose they server within the COLORE system.  The Core resource category contains resources associated with the actual CL content contained within the repository.  Other resource categories, such as the User resource category, describe relationships between non-CL content and the Core resource model.

== Core Resources ==

 * *_urn:oor:colore:ontologies_* is the directory of all COLORE ontologies.  This resource is represented as a list of URN strings of the form _urn:oor:colore:ontologies:{ontology_name}_.

 * *_urn:oor:colore:ontologies:{ontology_name}_* is the directory of all named cl-texts and cl-modules comprising the COLORE ontology identified by _ontology_name_.  This resource is represented as a list of URN strings of the form _urn:oor:colore:texts:{text_name}_.

 * *_urn:oor:colore:categories:{category_name}_* is the directory of all COLORE ontologies belonging to _category_name_.  This resource is represented as a list of URN strings of the form _urn:oor:colore:ontologies:{ontology_name}_.

 * *_urn:oor:colore:categories_* is the directory of all categories supported by COLORE.  This resource is represented as a list of URN strings of the form _urn:oor:colore:categories:{category_name}_.

 * *_urn:oor:colore:ontologies:{ontology_name}:texts:{text_name}_* is the content of the cl-text identified by _text_name_ and belonging to the COLORE ontology specified by _ontology_name_.  Note that _text_name_ may refer to either a named cl-text or a cl-module.  This resource is represented as valid CLIF text.

 * *_urn:oor:colore:ontologies:{ontology_name}:text:{text_name}:{rep_type}_* is the content of the cl-text identified by _text_name_ and belonging to the COLORE ontology specified by _ontology_name_.  Note that _text_name_ may refer to either a named cl-text or a cl-module.  This resource is represented according to the type identified by _rep_type_ (e.g. valid CGIF, CLCE etc.).

 * *_urn:oor:colore:texts:{text_name}:imports_* is the directory representing the transitive closure of all named cl-texts and cl-modules associated with the cl-text identified by _text_name_ belonging to the COLORE ontology specified by _ontology_name_.  This resource is represented as a list of URN strings of the form _urn:oor:colore:texts:{text_name}_.

== User Resources ==

 * *_urn:oor:colore:users:{user_name}_* is the directory of all categories supported by COLORE.  This resource is represented as a list of URN strings of the form _urn:oor:colore:categories:{category_name}_.

 * *_urn:oor:colore:{owner_name}_* is the directory of all COLORE ontologies owned by _owner_name_.  This resource is represented as a list of URN strings of the form _urn:oor:colore:{ontology_name}_.


= References =

 # [http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596529260 RESTful Web Services by Richardson and Ruby].