#summary This page provides a listing of Use Cases for the COLORE System.
=== By Cameron Ross ====

= Objectives =

The COLORE initiative has requirements related to both content development and software development.  The Uses Cases presented here describe COLORE's functional software requirements.  However, before delving into a detailed analysis of software requirements, it is important to understand the overall objectives of the project.  COLORE is intended to be an open repository of ontologies represented using Common Logic (CL).  The objectives of the COLORE project are:
 # to develop techniques for representing ontologies using CL,
 # to establish an open repository of CL-based ontologies,
 # to provide a testbed for investigating ontology integration and evaluation techniques,
 # to support the design and reuse of modular ontologies,
 # to promote [http://standards.iso.org/ittf/PubliclyAvailableStandards/c039175_ISO_IEC_24707_2007%28E%29.zip ISO 24707] for representing knowledge using first-order logic (i.e. CL),
 # to develop and promote best practices for ontological engineering using CL,
 # to construct software infrastructure to support collaborative ontology development using CL,
 # to provide programmatic services for accessing the contents of a CL repository,
 # to support both web-based and non-web-based applications,
 # to enable the proliferation and interoperation of CL-based repositories, and
 # to enable and promote an ecosystem of both open source and commercial developments focused on CL technology.

= System Architecture =

The Samian Platform, being developed under an affiliate [http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/samian-platform/ open source project], will support the construction of semantic systems based on Common Logic.  The platform is released under the [http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html Eclipse Public License] which supports COLORE's objectives for ecosystem development.  The Samian Platform is being adopted as COLORE's CL processing kernel.  Figure 1 depicts the Samian Platform within the context of the COLORE system architecture.  The Common Logic Abstract Syntax (CLAS) shown in the figure provides an Object-Oriented representation of arbitrary CL texts.  The platform provides an extensible mechanism for iterating over CLAS instances to perform a variety of custom operations such as language translation and metrics analysis.  This same mechanism will also be used to integrate the CLAS model with various reasoning engines.  The CLAS model may be persisted to a variety of database back-ends via the [http://www.datanucleus.org/ DataNucleus Access Platform].  The versatility of this persistence technology will help remove barriers to adopting the Samian Platform for a variety of applications.

The Resource-Oriented Repository (ROR) shown in Figure 1 provides a RESTful interface into the Object-Oriented CLAS model.  We believe that REpresentational State Transfer (REST) is an effective protocol for managing CL content.  However, unlike most popular applications of REST, which target web services, the Samian ROR is generalized to support both web-based and non-web-based applications,  This unique feature of the Samian Platform is required to support COLORE objectives.  Generally speaking, resources may be thought of as anything that is interesting enough to be identified by name.  Based on an understanding of the COLORE requirements and an analysis of the [ColoreResourceModel#References ISO 24707] specification, we have identified named texts, modules and interpretablenames as the base set of CL resources within the Samian ROR.

http://colore.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/ColoreSystemArchitecture.jpg<br/>
*Figure 1:  The COLORE System Architecture*

Uniform Resource Names (URNs) are intended to serve as persistent, location-independent resource identifiers.  Unlike Universal Resource Locators (URLs), URNs do not tie a resource to a specific location on the web.  As COLORE is intended for both web-based and non-web-based applications, URNs are ideal for naming COLORE resources.  Table 1 summarizes the URNs for accessing the Samian ROR.  

|| *URN* || *Description* || *Representation* ||
|| urn:oor:colore:texts || The directory of all COLORE texts || A list of URN strings of the form urn:oor:colore:texts:{text} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:texts:{text} || The most recent version of the CL text identified by {text} || A listing of CLIF text ||
|| urn:oor:colore:texts:{text}:{version} || The version, identified by {version}, of the CL text identified by {text} || A listing of CLIF text ||
|| urn:oor:colore:texts:{text}:{rep_type} || The most recent version of the CL text identified by {text} || A listing of CL text in the syntax identified by {rep_type} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:texts:{text}:{version}:{rep_type} || The version, identified by {version}, of the CL text identified by {text} || A listing of CL text in the syntax identified by {rep_type} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:modules || The directory of all COLORE modules || A list of URN strings of the form urn:oor:colore:module:{module} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:modules:{module} || The most recent version of the CL module identified by {module} || A listing of CLIF text ||
|| urn:oor:colore:modules:{module}:{version} || The version, identified by {version}, of the CL module identified by {module} || A listing of CLIF text ||
|| urn:oor:colore:modules:{module}:{rep_type} || The most recent version of the CL module identified by {module} || A listing of CL text in the syntax identified by {rep_type} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:modules:{module}:{version}:{rep_type} || The version, identified by {version}, of the CL module identified by {module} || A listing of CL text in the syntax identified by {rep_type} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:texts:{text}:direct_imports || The directory representing the named texts and modules explicitly imported into the most recent version of the CL text identified by {text} || A list of URN strings of the form urn:oor:colore:texts:{text} and urn:oor:colore:modules:{module} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:texts:{text}:{version}:direct_imports || the directory representing the named texts and modules explicitly imported into the version, identified by {version}, of the CL text identified by {text} || a list of URN strings of the form urn:oor:colore:texts:{text} and urn:oor:colore:modules:{module} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:texts:{text}:import_closure || The directory representing the transitive closure of all named texts and modules associated with the most recent version of the CL text identified by {text} || a list of URN strings of the form urn:oor:colore:texts:{text} and urn:oor:colore:modules:{module} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:texts:{text}:{version}:import_closure || The directory representing the transitive closure of all named texts and modules associated with the version, identified by {version}, of the CL text identified by {text} || A list of URN strings of the form urn:oor:colore:texts:{text} and urn:oor:colore:modules:{module} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:modules:{module}:direct_imports || The directory representing the named texts and modules explicitly imported into the most recent version of the CL module identified by {module} || as a list of URN strings of the form urn:oor:colore:texts:{text} and urn:oor:colore:modules:{module} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:modules:{module}:{version}:direct_imports || The directory representing the named texts and modules explicitly imported into the version, identified by {version}, of the CL module identified by {module} || A list of URN strings of the form _urn:oor:colore:texts:{text} and urn:oor:colore:modules:{module} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:modules:{module}:import_closure || The directory representing the transitive closure of all named texts and modules associated with the most recent version of the CL module identified by {module} || A list of URN strings of the form urn:oor:colore:texts:{text} and urn:oor:colore:modules:{module} ||
|| urn:oor:colore:modules:{module}:{version}:import_closure || The directory representing the transitive closure of all named texts and modules associated with the version, identified by {version}, of the CL module identified by {module} || A list of URN strings of the form urn:oor:colore:texts:{text} and urn:oor:colore:modules:{module} ||
*Table 1: URNs of the Samian Resource-Oriented Repository*

= Actors =

Users of the COLORE system fall into one of three general categories: _Administrators_, _Users_ and _Guests_.  _Administrators_ are authorized to perform all functions relating to both system management and content management.  The COLORE system may have one or more _Administrators_.  _Users_ are formally registered with the COLORE system and may create projects and become _Project Members_.  The COLORE system may have any number of _Users_.  _Guests_ are not registered with the COLORE system and are limited to read-only access of COLORE's public artifacts.

_Users_ fall into one of three sub-categories: _Owners_, _Committers_, and _Contributors_.  _Owners_ may make changes to the project's artifacts and may add and remove _Users_.  A project may have one or more _Owners_.  _Committers_ may make changes to the project's artifacts, but may not change the project's members list.  A project may have zero or more _Committers_.    _Contributors_ have read-only access rights to a project's artifacts, but may participate in the discussion forums and wikis associated with the project.

To summarize, the list of COLORE actors is:
 * _Administrator_
 * _User_
 * _Guest_
 * _Owner_
 * _Committer_
 * _Contributor_

= COLORE Use Cases =
The methodology used to analyze COLORE requirements is motivated by the concepts of Resource-Oriented Architecture, developed by [http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596529260 Richardson & Ruby], and the ideas on Resource-Oriented Analysis & Design, developed by [http://www.manning.com/louvel Louvel & Boileau]. The format used to capture COLORE Use Cases is based on [http://www.amazon.com/Writing-Effective-Cases-Alistair-Cockburn/dp/0201702258 Alistar Cockburn's] approach.  

== Use Cases for Managing COLORE Users ==

 * [UC6646]: Add a new user to the system
 * [UC6203]: Retrieve a list of all users registered within the system
 * [UC4089]: Retrieve the metadata of a specified user
 * [UC1011]: Update the metadata of a specified user
 * [UC2261]: Remove a specified user from the system
 * [UC5983]: Add a new organization to the system
 * [UC6706]: Retrieve a list of all organizations registered within the system
 * [UC6533]: Retrieve the metadata of a specified organization
 * [UC8874]: Update the metadata of a specified organization
 * [UC9687]: Remove a specified organization from the system
 * [UC1194]: Associated a specified user with a specified organization

== Use Cases for Managing the COLORE Catalog ==

 * [UC9626]: Add a new category to the system
 * [UC7318]: Retrieve a list of all categories defined within the system
 * [UC8779]: Retrieve the metadata of a specified category
 * [UC4316]: Update the metadata of a specified category
 * [UC9493]: Remove a specified category from the system

== Use Cases for Managing Common Logic Content ==

 * [UC2505]: Add a new ontology to a specified category
 * [UC4764]: Retrieve a list of all ontologies within a specified category
 * [UC2798]: Retrieve the metadata of a specified ontology
 * [UC4169]: Update the metadata of a specified ontology
 * [UC5503]: Remove a specified ontology from the system
 * [UC9786]: Add a new CL text to the specified ontology
 * [UC3467]: Retrieve a listing of all CL texts within the repository
 * [UC5377]: Retrieve most recent version of a CL text from the repository
 * [UC8204]: Retrieve a specific version of a CL text from the repository
 * [UC3980]: Add a new version of a CL text within the repository
 * [UC7883]: Update an existing version of a CL text within the repository
 * [UC8388]: Delete all versions of a CL text from the repository
 * [UC9742]: Delete a specific version of a CL text from the repository
 * [UC2892]: Delete the most recent version of a CL text from the repository
 * [UC4135]: Retrieve a listing of all CL texts that reference a specified CL name