= Add a new user to the repository =

== Use Case Brief ==
*B1.* This use case specifies the requirement to add a new _User_ to the _Repository_.<br/>
*B2:* Only an _Administrator_ can add new users.<br/>

== Details ==
 * *Level:* Client Goal
 * *Primary Actor:* _Client_

== Preconditions ==
 * The _Client_ application has been authenticated with the _System_.

== Actors ==
 * _Repository_
 * _Client_
 * _Repository_
 *_Administrator_

== Resources ==
 * _User Resource_ (urn:oor:colore:user)

== Main Success Scenarios ==
*M1.* Add New User:
 a. The _Client_ constructs a representation of the _User Resource_.<br/>
 b. The _Client_ sends this representation to the _Repository_.<br/>
 c. The _Repository_ receives the _User Resource_.<br/>
 d. The _Repository_ verifies the authentication and authorization of the _Client_.<br/>
 e. The _Repository_ validates the contents of the _User Resource_.<br/>
 f. The _Repository_ verifies that the _User Resource_ does not already exist in the _Repository_.<br/>
 g. The _Repository_ adds the _User Resource_ to the _Repository_.<br/>
 h. The _Repository_ returns successful status to the _Client_.<br/>

== Extensions ==
*E1.* Timeout Error (M1.3-M1.8):
 a. TBD.<br/>

*E2.* Unknown _Repository_ Error (M1.3-M1.8):
 a. The _Repository_ terminates the request and rolls back the transaction.<br/>
 b. The _Repository_ adds an error message to the Repository Log.<br/>
 c. The _Repository_ returns a failure status to the _Client_.<br/>

*E3.* Authentication or Authorization Error (M1.4):
 a. The _Repository_ terminates the request and rolls back the transaction.<br/>
 b. The _Repository_ adds a warning message to the Repository Log.<br/>
 c. The _Repository_ returns a access denied status to the _Client_.<br/>

*E4.* User Resource Validation Error (M1.5):
 a. The _Repository_ terminates the request and rolls back the transaction.<br/>